well the United Nations says 45% of all
homes in Gaza have been damaged or
destroyed with more than 2 million
people largely dependent on foreign aid
the UN says only 74 Supply trucks have
been allowed into Gaza since the
fighting began that's down from 500 a
day before the Hamas attacks on Israel
the Gaza Health Ministry says more than
7,000 Palestinians have been killed by
Israel air strikes many of them
children an uncle picks up his nephew's
body shrouded in white and takes him to
the Grave another young victim of gaza's
worsening humanitarian
crisis this is one of my
nephews my brother's wife and children
were all
martyred my nephew was injured two weeks
ago and because all the crossings are
closed from medical evacuations he
passed
away there's no medicine for efficient
treatment no
fuel but the doctors did their best
the situation in Gaza has turned to one
of abject misery with shortages in
everything from water to food and
Medicine gaza's hospitals have been
particularly hard hit victims of Israeli
air strikes continue to pour in Israel
says it's targeting the terrorist group
Hamas as the number of wounded civilians
Rises the UN says nearly a third of
hospitals have had to close due to
damage or lack of
fuel fuel which is needed to pump water
and power hospitals is in such short
supply that the UN has warned it may
have to Halt humanitarian operations if
more doesn't arrive
soon but Israel says any fuel they allow
in could be seized by Hamas and rejects
un claims that Gaza doesn't have enough
we responded to un's Claim by referring
them to where Hamas which governs the
Gaza Strip stores fuel both diesel fuel
and uh other types of and Benzene and
other types of of fuel it's all inside
the Gaza Strip and there's enough for
many days for hospitals and water pumps
to run only the priorities are different
Hamas prefers to have all of the fuel
for its War fighting capabilities
leaving civilians without
leaders around the world are debating
what can be done to help civilians who
are the ones paying the heaviest
price well let's go directly to Gaza now
where journalist ham baloa joins us on
the line ham Gaza is receiving only a
trickle of the humanitarian Aid it needs
describe to us what conditions you and
other people there are facing
now it's so hard in Gaza it's getting
harder day by day um lack of of
everything lack of food lack of water
lack of drinking water um above all that
no power no electricity no internet no
communication um um the transportation
is is hard mostly the connection between
the cities is very limited uh people are
hardly communicating with with each
other uh there are lines on everything
like bakeries um uh grocery shops um um
where is like some drinking water places
people go and rush to uh we see people
like have galloons and have everything
bags to fill it with with washing or
drinking water um some people um um
shifted to to cooking on fire instead of
of of cooking gas because it's not
available as well um all the aspects of
Life were affected in during these um uh
20 or 21
days the UN says nowhere is safe in Gaza
they point out that 45% of all homes in
Gaza have been destroyed or damaged
where do you go ham where do you and
your family go when the bombs start
falling this is the big question among
all Ordinary People here or civilians
there is no place to go I know
personally many people who evacuated to
the South uh when they asked to evacuate
from G City or the northern part to the
southern cities but um I mean many of
them return back to the to to to to to
Gala City because it's like continued of
air strikes in the South we I mean
according to the statistics like issued
Yesterday by Ministry of Health we are
talking about over
2,600 were killed in the South cities um
while about four or over 4,000 were
killed in in in in in Gaza and the north
so um people always wonder where where
where is the the safe place um uh and uh
where to go uh many people have no
places to go I know literally people are
sleeping industry or in their cars in
the
street ham thank you very much
journalist ham baloa in Gaza thank
you European union leaders meeting at a
Summit in Brussels have called for a
pause in the fighting between Israel and
Hamas to get desperately needed Aid to
civilians in Gaza the common declaration
calls for the establishment of
humanitarian corridors and pauses rather
than a ceasefire EU leaders had
struggled to agree on the statement's
precise
wording Let's cross to Brussels now to
speak with our correspondent there b Li
B what did it take for the European
union leaders to find a common position
on the Israel Hamas
conflict well it took the leaders 5
hours of intense bargaining and
bickering about the wording of a
declaration that might not have much
impact on the ground actually now they
talk about pauses in tarian corridors
but not defining what that actually
means how long these paes should be um
the effort is designed to get
humanitarian Aid into Gaza and also to
get hostages and foreigners out of Gaza
to win some time and as a compromise the
EU also suggests now to have to hold an
International Peace conference soon also
this wording is very fluffy it's a
French proposal um that was also
ventilated during the visit of imanuel
macron in Israel um but but diplomats
here have doubt that this declaration
will have much impact because neither
Israel nor the terrorist organization
Hamas will give much about the words
from the EU the role will be to to
finance humanitarian Aid further but the
EU has in this conflict not much
political Cloud Ben thank you very much
that was our correspondent van leut in
Brussels